### West African TB

In addition to the scripts in this repository, [parsec](https://github.com/galaxy-iuc/parsec) was used to assist in automating the analysis. 

The West Africa TB history on usegalaxy.eu contains:

1. A cleanup up list of samples to analyze, split into 12 parts with names like sample_ids_000011.txt (numbered from 0 to 11)
2. The Mycobacterium tuberculosis ancenstral reference Genbank sequence (H37Rv (NC_000962.3) annotation combined with the inferred ancestral reference sequence)
3. A FASTA file generated by inserting the point mutations from SRR10828835 (lineage 8 M. tyberculosis) into the inferred ancestral sequence.

#### Prepare history:

Blank histories with names in the format 'WA TB X' where X is a number from 1 to 12, were created. The `prepare_histories.py` script:

1. Finds the "sample_ids" dataset from the West Africa TB history
2. Finds the reference genome dataset from this history
3. Copies these datasets to all the 'WA TB X' history (max and min numbers for X are provided by the user)
4. Runs the `fasterq_dump` tool to download data from NCBI

#### Check on history status

The `get_history_status.py` script checks the 'WA TB X' datasets to see if:

1. They contain an ok-status dataset name "fasterq-dump log", which indicates that the download completed successfully
2. They contain an ok status dataset from the SNP distance matrix tool, which indicates that the workflow invocation has completed successfully.

#### Copy histories

The `copy_history.py` script (which relies on code not yet in bioblend releases) copies a history to a new history. This was used to make copies of the ready-to-run 'WA TB X' history as 'WA TB X working' to ensure that a failed workflow invocation doesn't "pollute" the 'WA TB X' history.

#### Invoke workflow

The `invoke_workflow.py` launches the "TB Variant Analysis v1.4.0 - dev - Mycobacterium kraken2 DB" workflow in a chosen history (one of the "WA TB X working" histories).


### Get invocatiion status

The `get_invocation_status.py` scans histories with the pattern "WA TB X working" and checks on their completion status and also the status of association workflow invocations.

#### Further notes

Package management is done using `pixi`, util code is in `wa_tb/utils.py`
